hello a Herschel Pangborn here to
demonstrate version 2.0 of the home
irrigation system for watering plants
there are two new things with this
version the first is that it runs
exclusively on battery power so you can
see back here we have just a 9-volt
battery that runs the whole deal and the
other difference is right here the LCD
screen so this allows us to get some
feedback from the system without having
to plug into a computer alright so right
now you can see the red LED here that
indicates that the system is out of
water so over here we have our pump and
a water tank obviously in real life
you'd have a hose here going to your
plant but for demo purposes I put it on
the Shelf just to make it a little bit
easier to show you guys and then we also
have in here our moisture sensor which
is basically just a power plug it's
covered in dirt here because it's been
buried but yeah it's just a power plug
like you'd see for a while and you stick
it in the soil there alright so once
again our system is telling us it's out
of water so what we do is we refill the
water and then come over and we press
our button here I'm going to press the
button it'll start to water again this
green light indicates all systems go so
it won't actually water until I turn on
the power to the pump so I'll flip that
and there goes watering all right so
it'll water for about five seconds and
LCD is actually going to cycle between
three different stages hopefully you can
see them one it will show the voltages
so it'll compare the voltage being
measured at the plant to the voltage as
set by the potentiometer adjustment knob
alright screen to they'll actually show
you that it's watering the plant and
screen three it'll tell you how much
time is left time of watering is left in
the tank so right now if I want to maybe
heat the soil a little dryer I can
rotate the potentiometer and next cycle
it around it'll choose not a lot of the
plant because the voltage coming out of
the moisture sensor up here is not high
enough so as you can see no longer
watering the plant it stopped and when
you see the comparison of the two
voltages
hopefully you can see that on the screen
you would see that it's not high enough
and then if I turn this knob back up
momentarily it'll start wandering again
let's see so there's our pump once again
the pump right now is just you know
plugged into the 120 volt from the wall
you know in a real system you probably
want to get a lower voltage a lower
current pump and then that's the kind of
thing that you could plug right into a
solar panel if you wanted to you can
also run the Arduino with solar power
pretty easy so next steps or this system
obviously the first thing you'd want to
do would be up there go to pump again
alright anyway next steps the first
thing you want to do would be to enclose
it waterproof it's that everything's
really safe you could just put in your
guard and leave it not worry about rain
and not worry about the the pump getting
anything wet another thing you could do
is put a little Wi-Fi board on there
I get Facebook integration or iPhone
Android app integration so there we go
that's just my demonstration of a
working home irrigation system if anyone
has any questions you're more than
welcome to email me or contact me in any
way thanks a lot bye